# Incident: 2025-04-08 4-05-00

## Summary

Between the hours of 19:15 and 22:00 (UTC) on April 8, 2025, all users encountered all pizza orders failing. The event was triggered by a chaos monkey at 19:15. The chaos monkey was a part of Deliverable 11: Chaos Testing.

The chaos monkey caused all pizza orders failing. The event was detected by Spencer Summerhays at around 15:45. He started working on the event by sending curl requests to order a pizza from the pizza-factory.

## Detection

This incident did not trigger any alerts, but rather was discovered by Spencer Summerhays while checking the logs for any abnormalities.

Next, Spencer worked on resolving the issue when he finally sent a curl request to order a pizza and obtained the report url and fix code that successfully disabled the chaos monkey.

In the future, an alarm for successful and failed pizza purchases will be created that can trigger the team when the ratio of failed purchases to successful purchases is greater than 50%. That way the team can be notified of an abnormality immediately when it occurs instead of hours later as happened this time.

## Impact

For 2 hours and 45 minutes between 19:15 and 22:00 (UTC), our users were unable to successfully order any JWT pizzas.

## Timeline
```md
All times are UTC.

- _13:30_ - Simulated traffic to website begins.
- _19:15_ - Chaos Monkey begins causing all pizza purchases to fail.
- _21:45_ - Spencer notices abormal pizza purchase failures with no successful purchases on Grafana dashboard.
- _22:00_ - Spencer sends curl request to order pizza and visits the link in the response to successfully resolve the chaos.
```

## Response

After noticing the abnormaility at 21:45 UTC, Spencer responded to the incident and began debugging.

## Root cause

The chaos monkey was causing all pizza purchases to fail and would continue to do so until responded to.

## Resolution

After obtaining the response json from a failed pizza purchase, Spencer obtained the fix code and was able to visit the report url in the response to resolve the chaos and restore the service.

## Prevention

Because this was a chaos test, the root cause is purposeful. In order to prevent such delayed responses, better alerts will be created.

## Action items

A new alert was created that triggers when the ratio of failed pizza purchases to successful pizza purchases is greater than 0.5 over the last minute in order to respond to the chaos quicker.
